Yui, use this.
Transferring code...
We'll be teleported.
Papa, your hand!
Papa.
Papa!
Yui?
Where are we?
I don't know.
There appears to be no map data.
Do you know where we can find Asuna?
Yes.
We're... We're quite close.
This way!
This is... the top of Yggdrasil?
What the hell? So much for the floating city...
"Grand Quest," my ass.
It was all a sham.
I'll make him pay.
Oh, that's right.
Saving Asuna is top priority right now.
These feelings I had buried are crying out.
kakushiteta kanjou ga himei wo ageteru
I'll hold on to these steadfast vows.
tashikana chikai wo te ni
Seeking but a miracle,
kiseki dake wo motome
I wander in the unrelenting darkness
kienai yami wo samayou
If I remain here, I'll only be trapped in the present.
doko ni ireba nidoto mirai miru koto dekinai
The moon beckons again tonight,
koyoi mo tsuki ga sasotte
and while I still can't voice my feelings,
mada kotoba dasenai kedo
I continue to scream inside my heart.
kokoro no naka sakebitsuzuketa
These feelings I had buried are crying out.
kakushiteta kanjou ga himei wo ageteru
I'll hold on to these steadfast vows.
tashikana chikai wo te ni
If only I could have become a little bit stronger,
ato honno sukoshi dake tsuyoku nareta nara
I would have flown far above these skies
me no mae ni aru kono sora koete yuku kara
and reached out to the future beyond here.
kono saki ni aru mirai ni te wo nobasu kara
Mama!
Yui-chan!
Mama.
Yui-chan.
Mama. Mama!
Kirito-kun.
Asuna.
Sorry I didn't come sooner.
No, I believed in you.
I knew that you'd definitely come to save me.
Now, let's go back together.
Yeah.
Yui, can you log out Asuna?
Mama's character data is being
constrained by complicated codes.
We need a system console to free her.
I saw something like that in the la—
What?
Yui...
What's going on?
Papa! Mama!
Be careful. Something... bad is coming.
Yui-chan!
Yui!
Asuna...
My, what a surprise.
A cockroach managed to find its
way into my songbird's cage.
You're...
Sugou, aren't you?
You should refrain from calling me that in this world.
Address me as His Highness, the Fairy King Oberon!
Kirito-kun!
Well? Can't lift a finger, right?
This is gravity magic, which will
be out with the next update, but...
maybe it's a little overpowered.
Stop it, you coward!
At any rate, Kirigaya-kun...
No, maybe it'd be more fitting to call you Kirito-kun.
How did you get all the way up here?
I saw a strange program running earlier.
I flew up... With these wings...
Well, no matter.
The truth will reveal itself if
I directly question your mind.
What?
You aren't thinking that I created
all of this on a whim, are you?
As many as 300 former SAO players...
Thanks to their wholehearted cooperation,
the fundamental research for the manipulation
of emotion and thought is already 80% complete.
That which has never been achieved by any other,
the direct manipulation of the human soul,
the power of a god!
Just a bit more and it'll be within my grasp!
Honestly, thank you virtual reality!
Sugou!
You'll never get away with this.
Never!
Oh? And who exactly is going to stop me?
I'm sorry to tell you that there's no god in this world.
Except for me, that is!
Now, before I alter your souls,
let's have a fun party!
You bastard, what are you...
There!
Perfect! I love it!
NPC women really can't make that face.
What a great fragrance.
Reproducing your scent proved
to be quite the challenge.
I hope you appreciate the trouble I went through
in order to get an analyzer into your hospital room.
Stop it.
Sugou...
Now, really...
The audience should just quietly stay put!
Kirito-kun!
System command: Pain Absorber...
Adjusted from Level 10 to Level 8.
Hurts, doesn't it?
I'll gradually intensify it, so look forward to it.
But keep in mind that once it drops below Level 3,
it'll apparently affect your real body.
Now, then...
Stop it, Sugou.
Don't worry, Kirito-kun.
Something like this isn't enough to hurt me.
That's exactly how it should be.
Just how long can you hold onto your pride?
Thirty minutes? An hour?
Keep it up for as long as you possibly can!
Want to know what I'm thinking of doing right now?
After I satisfy myself here,
I'll go to your hospital room.
Then, while I leave a recording of
this running on a large monitor,
I'll satisfy myself with you there.
With your real body.
S-Sweet.
Sweet!
Sugou, you bastard!
You bastard!
You bastard, I'll kill you!
Wait until I get my hands on you!
Is this... my punishment?
I thought that inside the game world,
I was an invincible hero,
and even led myself to think
that I could save Asuna alone.
But in reality...
I have no power at all.
So you give up?
That's not it.
I'm just accepting reality.
So you'll surrender...
to the power of a system that you once denied.
What choice do I have?
I'm just a player, while he's a Game Master.
Such words disgrace our battle.
Our battle, in which you proved to me that the
power of human will could overcome my system
and opened my eyes to the possibilities of the future.
You're...
Stand, Kirito-kun!
Compared to your empty attacks,
the blades of that world carried far more weight.
They hurt far more!
Honestly,
looks like there are a few strange bugs left.
System login:
ID Heathcliff.
Wh-What?
Whose ID is that?!
System command:
Change administrator authorities...
Set ID Oberon to Level 1.
A-An ID that outranks mine?!
Impossible!
I am the ruler! The creator!
King of this world! God!
Face reality already.
You stole this world.
And its people.
You're a king of thieves that danced
alone upon a plundered throne!
Y-You brat...
How dare you...
To me...
System command: Generate object ID Excaliber!
Obey me! Piece of junk!
God's...
These are God's orders!
Wait a little longer.
It'll be over soon.
System command: Generate object ID Excaliber!
So a single command can summon
a legendary weapon, huh?
It's time to settle this.
A battle between a king of thieves
and a gilded hero!
System command: Set Pain Absorber to Level 0.
Wh-What?
Don't run away.
That man didn't, no matter the cost or situation!
Not Kayaba Akihiko!
K-Kaya... Kayaba!
I see.
That ID is...
Why?
Why do you get in my way even after you're dead?!
You've always been that way!
Always looking down on me like a know-it-all!
Taking away everything I've ever wanted!
Sugou,
I can't deny that I know how you feel.
I, too...
I, too, lost to that man and
was bent to his will, after all.
But still, not once did I want to be like him.
Unlike you, that is.
You... little brat!
Damn it!
It hurts!
"It hurts"?
This is nothing compared to the pain
you've inflicted upon Asuna!
My arm!
I believed in you.
No, I still do.
I always have and always will.
You're my hero.
And will always come to my rescue.
You're wrong.
I...
I don't have any power at all.
But I'll do my best to change that.
Yeah.
Now, let's go back.
It's probably already nighttime in the real world.
But I'll be at your hospital room soon.
Okay, I'll be waiting.
I want you to be the first person I see.
It'll finally be over, won't it?
We can go back, huh?
Back to the real world.
That's right.
You'll be surprised by how much has changed.
Let's go to all sorts of places
and do all sorts of things, okay?
Yeah, definitely.
Everything's over now, right?
You're there, aren't you, Heathcliff?
It's been a while, Kirito-kun.
You're alive?
You could say I am, but you could also say I'm not.
I'm an echo of Kayaba Akihiko's consciousness.
An afterimage.
You never did make things easy to understand.
Well, I guess you have my gratitude.
That's unnecessary.
Why?
The two of us aren't so well acquainted
that we'd help each other unconditionally.
There is, of course, a price.
Always.
And what would that be?
What's this?
It's the origin of worlds,
"The Seed".
Once it buds, you'll understand its nature.
After that, its fate is in your hands.
You can delete it or even forget about it.
However, if you hold any feelings
other than hatred for that world...
Well, I'll be on my way, then.
Let's meet again someday, Kirito-kun.
Yui!
Are you okay, Yui?!
Papa!
You're safe!
Thank goodness.
Yes.
I took refuge inside your NerveGear's local memory.
Where's Mama?
She went back.
To the real world.
Really?
I'm so relieved!
I'm so relieved.
That's great.
We'll be back to see you soon.
But I wonder what's going to
happen to this world now.
My core program is stored in your NerveGear.
We'll always be together.
Then I'll be leaving now
to see Mama.
Okay, Papa!
I love you!
S-Sorry.
You were taking a while, so I got worried.
I apologize for taking so long.
Is it over now?
Yeah, it is.
Everything is.
Thank goodness!
Thank you... Thank you so much, Sugu.
If you hadn't been there, I wouldn't
have been able to do anything.
No...
I was happy... that I could help you in your world.
You finally brought Asuna-san back, didn't you?
Yeah, this time for sure.
She's finally back.
Sugu, I...
Go to her.
I'm sure she's waiting for you.
I-It's freezing.
Oh, it's snowing.
Be careful.
Higher and higher, I stretch out my hands
takaku takaku kono te wo nobashite
Be careful.
Say hi to Asuna-san for me.
takaku takaku kono te wo nobashite
Higher and higher, I stretch out my hands
Yeah, I'll properly introduce you to her next time.
takaku takaku kono te wo nobashite
Higher and higher, I stretch out my hands
and pray once more, "Someday, someday."
kitto kitto tte mou ichido negau kara
My endless feelings are lost
tomedonai omoi wa
in these ordinary days.
nichijou ni nomarete
They waver and change shape yet again.
yurameki nagara mata katachi wo kaeteitta
I wonder if I'm too late,
imasara mou osoi kana
but there's no answer in sight.
henji mo nai jimonjitou
Every decision is up to me,
subete wa sou jibun shidai
whether it's the beginning or the end.
owari mo hajimari mo
Higher and higher, I stretch out my hands.
takaku takaku kono te wo nobashite
Flying towards the gentle light, I flap my wings.
yasashii hikari wo mezashite habatakuyo
I embrace the passion
kokoro ni tomoshita
that flared up in my heart
jounetsu mo daite
and pray once more, "Someday, someday."
kitto kitto tte mou ichido negau kara